= pg

* https://github.com/headius/jruby-pg

== DESCRIPTION:

This is a native implementation of the Postsgres protocol written
entirely in Java. The project was started by @headius as a ruby-pg
replacement for JRuby that uses the JDBC driver and private API of
Postgres. Unfortunately ruby-pg (which uses libpq under the hood)
exposed a lot of features of Postgres that were impossible to
implement or were complicated given the nature of the JDBC and the
encapsulation of many features that are exposed in ruby-pg.

*WARNING* this gem is not production ready yet. There are many
bugs that needs to be fixed and more testing. So please checkout
the code and submit pull requests with some fixes. If your Java-Fu
isn't that great you can still contribute by submitting test cases
and We'll be happy to fix them.

== FEATURES:

* A ruby-pg drop in replacement for JRuby
* Async operations are supported
* Large Object API
* SSL connections
* Copy operations
* Zero dependencies on other jars and gems

== PROBLEMS:

* The current implementation targets postgres protocol V3 (introduced in v 7.4)
  only. I'll wait until someone ask for support of earlier versions.
* We need better test coverage since we're doing more than ruby-pg
* Run ActiveRecord and pg_search test suites on this implementation
* lo_import and lo_export are not implemented yet
* More Documentation especially in the parts that deal with the protocol.
* We currently have some failing tests when we run the activerecord test suite.
* Profiling the library would be awesome, but will try to get it running first
  then optimize.
* JRuby 1.6.x (1.8 mode) needs to be tested.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* Just a Postgres server and the gem.

== INSTALL:

* Currently we don't have the gem on rubygems, but I'll work on that if we can
  get a stable version out.

== DEVELOPERS:

You'll need postgres to be installed on your system. In order for you
to be able to run rails test suite, you'll also need the +hstore+ extension
which is also available in the +postgresql-contrib+ Ubuntu package (see
http://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.0/static/hstore.htmlhttp://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.0/static/hstore.html)
for more info.

You'll also need to create a new super user using your username and no password. You can
use the following command to do that:

  $ sudo -u postgres createuser -s <insert your username here>

After checking out the source, run:

  $ rake

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests/specs.

There are currently two test suites that run, the ruby-pg specs and
more specs targetted towards the JRuby implementation details in
jruby-spec. When you run `rake` both test suites are merged under
the 'spec' directory.

You can set +PG_TEST_SLL+ to 1, e.g.

  $ PG_TEST_SLL=1 rake

to run the entire test suite using SSL sockets instead of plain sockets. Also

  $ test_all.sh

runs the test suite with and without SSL.

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2012 John V. Shahid and Charles Nutter.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
